Cape Town - In just a few days, Capetonians, visitors and communities from neighbouring cities are expected to descend on Meerendal Estate in Durbanville for the Galaxy KDay music festival presented by Samsung and Kfm 94.5. The popular music festival will be held at the scenic wine estate on Saturday, March 4, from 10am. Kfm 94.5 station manager Stephen Werner said that the music show was the perfect end-of-summer celebration offering something for everyone, from home-grown talent to gourmet food and exciting vendors. He said: “Galaxy KDay is famous for featuring the finest in South African music. It’s not just a music event, but a full summer music festival experience! Galaxy KDay is the perfect day out with family and friends.  “Expect great music, good food, cool activations and an amazing atmosphere, against the scenic backdrop of the beautiful Cape Winelands.” This year’s Galaxy KDay line-up boasts famed trio Mi Casa and R&B crooner Jimmy Nevis. Nevis is expected to perform familiar crowd favourites and songs from his new album. Galaxy KDay will also host all-round entertainer and local music icon Emo Adams and Afrikaans hip-hop artist Early B, YoungstaCPT, Will Linley, Nasty C, DJs Fizz and Shai-A, Anica Kiana, Timo ODV, DJ Cosher and Kurt Darren. According to its organisers, Galaxy KDay will have entertainment and fun activities for everyone, from young kids to teens and seasoned adults “The entertainment continues off-stage with fun activations like Kfm 94.5’s immersive music experience hosted by some of the station’s top presenters. Festival-goers will also get to share the epic as they’ll be among the first to experience the all-new, feature-packed Samsung Galaxy S23. “Interactive gaming, make-up touch-ups and give-aways will also be on offer from big brands like Dairy Maid, MWeb, Capitec Bank, Essence by Cosmetix SA and Crocs.” The music festival, which since its inception has offered local vendors and street food places the platform to showcase their delicious food and treats, will continue its mission this year, offering the diverse crowd everything from street food to gourmet bites. “The Galaxy KDay food village promises to serve the best festival tastes the Cape has to offer. This includes a variety of delectable waffles from the food truck Every Day We’re Waffling, which recently won Kfm 94.5’s BizBoost Food Truck Edition. Alcohol, soft drinks and water will also be available.” In terms of connectivity, Kfm also revealed that one of its partners, MWeb, will be providing festival-goers with free wi-fi to make sure they stay connected and can post and interact online throughout the show. Festival-goers are advised to bring: – a picnic basket with food with wooden or plastic forks and knives – umbrellas and chairs. – Picnic blankets are allowed, too, but can’t be used in front of the stage, and camp chairs will be allowed in designated areas. – Gazebos are allowed but will be set up towards the back of the venue. – Only soft cooler boxes will be allowed into the venue. – Water is allowed in plastic bottles. – Remember hats and sunscreen. Here is a list of what not to bring to the Galaxy KDay: – glass – metal cutlery – No braais, pets, weapons, hubbly bubbly (any type), soft drinks, energy drinks and alcohol allowed. – No hard cooler boxes allowed. For more information, go to www.kfm.co.za/kday or book your tickets now at Ticketpro. Cape Argus