In the  media, we observe reports that are mind-boggling. Oddly, when leadership is required, many religious, political and business elite are missing since they lack reasonable and logical answers. Example one: A white man is in prison for assaulting a black man at a pool. The racism received swift action. In comparison, a black man drives a gas truck under a bridge, blows up a railway line, part of a hospital and kills 28 people. The black man who was responsible for the chaos and death is freed. Where is reason and logic when a black murderer is free but a white racist is locked up? Example two: The National Education Department wants to integrate toilets? Since most rural schools lack basic toilet facilities, how do we use reason and logic to integrate non-existent toilets? Example three: In 587BC Nebuchadnezzar, King of Persia, destroys Jerusalem, exiled the Jews and sent some Jewish tribes to the Afghan border to create a bulwark against the Pathan tribes. Centuries later, the Jews and Pathan had married and integrated. When Islam arrived in Afghanistan, everyone embraced Islam around 652AD. Since then, the Pathan has humbled all invaders including the Russian, British and American Empires. This early Jewish/Pathan intermarriage past remains relevant today. Let me explain, since my maternal grandmother’s family were Pathan who migrated to South Africa a century ago, does that history suggest that my family has land claims in Afghanistan or Palestine? If Europeans or American Jews can claim land in Palestine after 2 000 years, what ratio of Semitic blood must my family have to claim Palestinian land since the Pathan/Jewish ancestry is genuine? Also, can my family claim “right of return” to another ancestral homeland which could be Indonesia or Britain since we also have British and Indonesian ancestry? Since our Malay/Indonesian ancestors were exiled by the Dutch when they colonised the Archipelago, can we stake a claim to an island? To the readers who think I suffer from delusions of grandeur or psychosis, consider the following: A child can enter a classroom and demand the teacher address the child as he/ she or whatever. A man can dress as a woman and enter a women’s toilet and nobody is allowed to object or it could be gender discrimination. We are told some men are trapped in women’s bodies and vice versa. If a man can claim to be a woman and a man can legally marry another man, can my family with genuine Pathan/ Jewish/British and Malay/Indonesian ancestry legally claim land and dual citizenship in Afghanistan, Palestine, Great Britain or governance over any island near Indonesia and Malaysia? Since I have cousins without land, are we reasonable and logical to claim land based on ancestry? * Cllr Yagyah Adams, Cape Muslim Congress. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).