An interesting read is Carlos Mesquita’s take on Cape Town’s homelessness, dated October 22, 2022. In the same manner, I too am filled with mixed emotions regarding this issue. It is very complex and requires a multisectoral and multidisciplinary team approach to (find a) lasting solution. Cape Town has varied degrees of homelessness, e.g shacks. This was already a start of an undignified living space for humans. But it has become a norm, such that shack dwellers have since called these structures homes. I am not alluding to the fact that the homelessness would go in the same direction. I hope not. Something needs to be done about this wicked problem before it becomes a norm. Unfortunately, even though they appear sympathetic, the national government’s stance of not removing dwellers after they have created a structure is a shame as it reinforces undignified and inhumane living. But once again the homeless people are not able to articulate this fact. Instead, they see this as a favour by government to advocate for them. Sad. Cape Town will continue to attract people from all walks of life because of its well-administered government systems in relation to other provinces, especially in health care. People move to the city with the hope of bettering themselves. This increased population has put a huge demand on the City’s budget. Another contributing factor has been the government’s promise of free services for the poorest of the poor. The government continues to fail to ensure people are empowered with dignity, where they can be selfsufficient for daily living. Instead, they have been made dependent on the government and this, in turn, works for the ruling party. It’s a sad situation. Citizens have been promised free housing, free education, free schooling, subsidised electricity and water, and these are unsustainable. The tax base has decreased over the years because of unemployment, as well as tax evasion, which has been exacerbated by corruption, where civilians see no point in paying tax. * Lindiwe Marepula, Cape Town.  ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).