Cape Town - An American student’s innocent plea for help on how not to look like an American tourist while they study in Cape Town had many South African Reddit users weighing in. In their post on the confessional social media app, the student posted: “Hello! I am an American student who will be studying abroad at UCT from February to June. I am wanting to not look like a stereotypical (American) tourist and was hoping some of you guys would have some advice about what not to wear/ bring. “For example, I heard that white sneakers are a dead giveaway, and constantly wearing sneakers for just walking around is very American. Is plaid okay? What gives American tourists away if you have any other advice that would be great! Thanks in advance.” In responding to the post, South Africans did not disappoint, flooding the post’s comment sections with hundreds of comments and advice on how they could best enjoy South Africa and Cape Town, all while not exhibiting behaviours Americans are known for when they travel outside of their country. One Reddit user replied saying: “South Africa is diverse so how you dress is not going to matter too much. Stay clear of being the bad American tourist stereotype (loud, obnoxious, patronising) and you’ll be fine,” to which several others agreed. Another commenter wrote: “Honestly, our fashion is very much influenced by the US so anything casual will fit right in (white sneakers included). Feb is hot, so pack some shorts and a cap in case you need it.  “Plaid isn't the most common fashion, compared to jeans and a T-shirt, but it's also not unusual enough to make you stand out. Heck, every second hoodie here is for a US baseball team nobody even knows about. “I'd recommend avoiding things that advertise your wealth and present easy theft opportunities, eg gold watches, DSLR camera around your neck in town, fanny packs, etc.  “If you travel with a backpack, it can make you identifiable as a tourist, so just take care of it. Most crime is opportunistic, so a bit of savvy like putting your leg through a back strap when sitting down or avoiding hiking alone is the best defence.” “Oh, one very American thing to avoid – that whole wallet in the back pocket thing. Don’t do that, side pockets of your pants only. Back pockets are easy to pickpocket.” A few others offered less serious takes such as “Say ‘my bru’ a bunch of times an you will fit right in lol” and “leave the baseball cap at home”. Another user commented: “One thing you must wear here – sunscreen. In February you can burn in five minutes outside. I've even gotten sunburnt on the winter solstice in Cape Town.” To which another user immediately quipped that they had suffered permanent sun damage spots on their face from jogging one winter in Pretoria. “Never underestimate our sun. Our family in Durban had German tourists visit. Even with sunscreen and limiting time on the beach, this dude burnt the top of his feet so badly that he couldn’t wear shoes for two weeks,” the user wrote. Cape Argus