Cape Town - It was cheers and tears as family, friends and co-workers celebrated the life of International Domestic Worker Federation (IDWF) leader Myrtle Witbooi at the AGS church in N1 City, Goodwood. Witbooi, 75, died on January 16 after her long struggle with bone cancer.  Gathered in her honour, united by the vision she had and lived her life working towards, the “comrades” took turns sharing the lovely encounters they had with her. Sharing her tribute, all the way from Jamaica, member of the IDWF Shirley Pryce said: “You fought for women and children and if it was up to you no one would have been left behind.  “You have definitely changed the world as far as domestic workers are concerned and you have left us speechless with no time to prepare for your passing.” Fairus Mullangee from the University of the Western Cape said: “Myrtle we salute you for your courage, commitment and resilience. “We had agreements and disagreements but we shared a common interest in social justice for vulnerable workers. We bid farewell to you today but your legacy will live on.” IDWF member Elizabeth Tang said: “Myrtle inspired, mobilised and reminded people of the light at the end of the tunnel. The relationship we had was beyond work, she helped me by holding me tight when political suppression failed my family. My husband is in jail for his political activism in Hong Kong and Myrtle had always asked me about him”. Sadsawu member Hester Stephens said: “Myrtle taught me how to deal with the labour laws of this country, representing workers. As a worker I look up to her courage, love and passion that she had for representing vulnerable workers of South Africa. “For 52 years Witbooi advocated for the rights of domestic workers not only in South Africa but for the International Domestic Workers Federation. She helped co-found the South African Domestic Workers Union (Sadwu) in 1986. One of the quotes Witbooi was fondly remembered for was shared by her comrades: “I want you to remember me, unite and organise. I want you to remember if I can do it, you can do it and together we can sing Amandla.” siviwe.melapi@inl.co.za Cape Argus