Cape Town - The City of Cape Town’s Safety and Security Directorate says it is continuing to make inroads in ridding local communities of criminals and dangerous weapons and substances. This comes after yet another successful crime intervention operation in Hanover Park, where metro police were dispatched to respond to information of drug dealing at premises in Turflynn Road. According to the directorate, metro police upon their arrival discovered that the premises were occupied. Safety and Security Mayco member JP Smith said the occupants thought they had enough time to stash their contraband. However, permission for a search was granted just in time. "Metro police K9 Kalisi was adamant about the presence of narcotics in what appeared to be a conventional brick wall. Trusting in the abilities of the K9 member, on closer inspection the wall was opened, and in the cavity officers discovered a consignment of drugs.” Smith said metro officers confiscated mandrax tablets including 19 halves and 10 whole tablets along with five bags of tik (crystal meth). He said: “Such results continue to demonstrate the incredible value of a working, efficient K9 unit. In the interest of literally leaving no stone unturned, and to acknowledge that the national government has crippled the existing SAPS K9 unit, the City of Cape Town has already undertaken to massively expand its existing metro police K9 unit.” Smith said an expanded K9 unit could also be used to further assist not only the additional LEAP teams, but also the local SAPS members as they carry out their crime prevention initiatives. In another incident, metro police officers attached to the Tactical Response Unit arrested a suspect for the illegal possession of a prohibited firearm and ammunition in Hanover Park on Thursday morning. Spokesperson for the City's metro police department Ruth Solomons said that the arrest took place just before 9am when officers who were conducting crime prevention patrols received information about firearms being kept at premises in the area. “Officers sought permission to conduct a search, and K9 Kiana indicated the presence of a firearm and/or ammunition. Her handler found a 9mm pistol with the serial number filed off and 22 rounds of ammunition in a pot in the kitchen.  “A 28-year-old suspect was arrested and detained at Philippi SAPS,” Solomons said. Smith added: “A working, well-resourced K9 unit is an essential component of any police force. In order to beat the current drug scourge in the province, the City is determined to add such additional bite to our local SAPS resources within our municipality.” nomalanga.tshuma@inl.co.za Cape Argus