We start the academic school year next week with the 2022 matric results of the National Senior Certificate being released on January 19. We must always remain positive when it comes to the field of education anywhere in the world. Parents, teachers and students must work together with the education department to see that our children receive the best education possible. Where the education department is not delivering it must be challenged vociferously. This time of the year, I take note of the schools where I see some teachers’ cars parked, getting the schools ready for the new academic year. I was principal at a high school for 32 years and know the preparation which must take place at a school for it to be successful in all respects. Normally schools in South Africa open two days for teachers before students return to schools. I commend the department for this because schools are then prepared for students to start the education programme on the day the students return to school. There is no excuse for the school time-table not to be completed when teachers report to school on the first day of the new academic year. In September of the previous school year, the school receives what is called its staff establishment, which indicates the number of teachers you will have for the new year. When I started teaching, I was summoned to the deputy-principal’s home to assist him with the school time-table two weeks before school started. Now, with computer programmers, there is no excuse for any school not to have a working school time-table when the students arrive at school. We started the school day having a full school day. The parents, teachers and students knew that we meant business. On the first Friday, we divided the new students into athletics houses and had mass participation in house and school athletics for the next four weeks after school. Parent-teacher-student meetings were held for each grade in the second and third weeks of school. Parents whose children failed the previous year were called to discuss what their children should do to be successful. What I am trying to emphasise is order. I do not accept that because we are fighting the department and because we are short on teachers, learning cannot take place. This is where schools can come together and put pressure on the education department to meet the school’s demands. I remember once at a meeting of principals, I raised the poor physical conditions of many schools in the Western Cape. I was told that the education department was going to spend R30 million on new brick classrooms for the school at which I was teaching. I told the head of education in no uncertain terms that I was not only concerned about the school I taught at but at all schools requiring good physical facilities. I have found when schools stand together, more is achieved than by isolated school efforts. I wish all schools well during this academic year. * Brian Isaacs.  ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).