Cape Town - The City of Cape Town’s Human Settlement’s project teams and contractors are back on site at the Belhar Pentech housing project to complete homes.  The City’s R44.2 million housing project is nearing completion and will provide 340 opportunities for residents. Human Settlements Mayco member Malusi Booi said: “We are pleased to see work kick off again after the holiday period and we look forward to providing homes to the remaining beneficiaries. Thus far, 234 opportunities have been handed over, including 16 homes for those with disabilities.  “We are committed to protecting the opportunities of rightful beneficiaries, and we will do everything in our power to deliver more affordable housing in well-located areas in the city. “Most recently, the Human Settlements Department handed over 10 more homes to beneficiaries right before the Christmas holidays, and we look forward to handing over many more very soon. “The City thanks the community for their support, as well as the City contractors and teams for their dedication and hard work and for the role they play in helping us provide homes to some of the poor and most vulnerable residents of the city,“ Booi said. In 2022, the City of Cape Town Human Settlements Directorate took the decision, with the qualifying beneficiaries, to hand over keys to homes completed and awaiting the final electricity installations.  This is done in agreement with all beneficiaries to protect the homes against the threat of unlawful occupation. Beneficiaries of all City housing projects are selected in accordance with the City's Housing Allocation Policy and the City’s Housing Needs Register to ensure housing opportunities are made available in a fair and transparent manner and to those who qualify for housing as per the South African legislation. Residents can give anonymous tip-offs if they are aware of illegal activity in the past, present or future.  Call 112 from a cellphone (toll free), 107 from a landline, or 021 480 7700 for emergencies. Cape Argus