Cape Town - Foreign tourists continue to visit Cape Town in great numbers despite some Western countries updating travel advisories for their citizens planning visits. Among the countries to have updated their advisories issued late last year are Australia and Canada. The Canadian government’s advice to their citizens is to exercise a high degree of caution due to the significant level of serious crime. The advisory warns tourists to avoid walking from downtown hotels to the waterfront and tells them: “There have been attacks on hikers and tourists at reserves, hiking trails, including Table Mountain, and other tourist attractions and their parking lots.” The Australian government's smart traveller site warns: “Be alert as crime rates in South Africa are significantly higher than in Australia and often involve weapons.” In November Cape Town launched a tourism safety unit and it has had a busy summer so far. In December the unit conducted more than 1 500 patrols, assisted 488 tourists with safety and general queries, responded to 497 complaints and assisted in three arrests. The unit, which comprises 28 Law Enforcement officers, is active at tourist attractions such as the Table Mountain Cableway, Lion’s Head, the Waterfront, Bo-Kaap, Long Street and the Grand Parade. In a written reply to a question about the unit and its operations from DA MPL Cayla Murray, Finance and Economic Opportunities MEC Mireille Wenger said the unit’s officers have received training on tourism safety, visitor in distress protocols and tourism-related visitor information skills. Wenger said the 28 officers were in addition to other safety personnel deployed around Cape Town by the City and the CCID. She said: “The officers are not just responding to criminal activity but also providing much-needed services and information sharing as it relates to safety tips at key tourism hot spots, which prevents incidents from occurring.” Murray said the high number of patrols contributed significantly to a safer and more tourist-friendly environment. “This once again attests to the power of greater law enforcement visibility as a deterrent to crime – something Police Minister Bheki Cele should take note of.” Wesgro chief executive Wrenelle Stander said she was pleased with December’s data showing two-way international passengers at Cape Town International Airport at 95% recovery when compared with 2019 figures. mwangi.githahu@inl.co.za Cape Argus