Cape Town - Amid an avian influenza (bird flu) outbreak at the Southern African Foundation for the Conservation of Coastal Birds’ (Sanccob) seabird hospital in Cape Town, the non-profit organisation was able to release its first group of rehabilitated African penguins for the year, thanks to strict biosecurity measures. Fifty-one African penguins have been released at the Stony Point colony in Betty’s Bay since the start of the year, as well as five rehabilitated kelp gulls and a black-headed heron.  Over 350 birds remained at Sanccob’s facility in Cape Town, some of which were still affected by bird flu. The facility has been under state-mandated quarantine since the end of November when the first cases of avian influenza were detected in African penguins undergoing rehabilitation there. The endangered species already faces multiple threats causing its population to decline. Strict biosecurity measures were then implemented and the facility was closed to the public to limit and combat the spread of the highly pathogenic disease that was further endangering the African penguin population. Sanccob conservation head Nicky Stander said their increased biosecurity protocols allowed them to isolate some areas of the facility that were not affected by the disease, these areas were kept separate from the affected birds since the outbreak was detected. Based on the negative test results and Sanccob’s strict biosecurity protocol, the Department of Agriculture awarded Sanccob a special permit to release these birds. Stander said: “It is still a long road to walk before all the birds are free from avian influenza and quarantine can be lifted but we are confident that most of the birds in our care will soon be swimming free once more.” Sanccob clinical vet David Roberts added that although the remaining infected birds were mostly asymptomatic or had very mild symptoms, it still took a lot of work (and money) to feed and care for so many penguins that were otherwise ready for release. “We are concerned their extended stay in captivity will lead to secondary health complications,” Roberts said. State vet Vivien Malan said Sanccob’s staff members have all been working together with the state vet to deal with the current situation and have dealt with the outbreak very well by taking control measures quickly.  “Additional testing was carried out at significant expense by Sanccob to ensure that control measures are effective and to prevent the virus from being released into the environment from infected birds at the facility,” she said. kristin.engel@inl.co.za Cape Argus