Cape Town - After almost two years of minimised events, this year the L’Ormarins King’s Plate is promising to dish out twice the glamour, exciting races, fashion and fine wines.  The prestigious and long-standing horse racing event, the 162nd L’Ormarins King’s Plate (formerly Queen’s Plate) will be held this coming Saturday at the Hollywoodbets Kenilworth Racecourse in Cape Town.  According to its organisers, this year’s L’Ormarins King’s Plate is expected to draw more than five thousand racing enthusiasts to witness the revival of the fully fledged iconic blue-and-white event. The event, as one of the Cape’s foremost racing and social events, is expected to offer something for everyone and spectators can expect to witness history in the making with Jet Dark potentially winning his third plate in a row and cementing himself as one of the all-time greats.  “The day will also see the first-ever ladies’ race, the Okapi Ladies International, with only female jockeys at the helm,” a spokesperson said.  “The Okapi Ladies International will be held on the L’Ormarins King’s Plate programme down the 1 200m Hollywoodbets Kenilworth straight course.  “The idea for the Okapi Ladies event is said to have been established by Gaynor Rupert of Drakenstein Stud, who was impressed by a similar concept, the Magnolia Cup at Glorious Goodwood in Britain, deciding it would be a great idea to implement in South Africa as well,” she said. The Cape Town race is open to all fillies with net official merit ratings of 95 or less.  A maximum of 14 female riders, able to weigh out at between 53kg and 63kg, will be chosen from the 20-odd applicants, who come from varying equestrian backgrounds.  Two International riders have confirmed their attendance, O’Meara Rusike from Zimbabwe and Samantha Swanepoel from the UK.  Riding master and former jockey Craig du Plooy said: “I can’t begin to tell you how impressed I am with the candidates, they are outstanding. They have joined my normal training classes for race riders and have been putting in the hard graft, showing lots of commitment.  “I want each rider to take the necessary precautions and make them as familiar as possible with all aspects of race riding.  “They have been doing track work, grass gallops and going through the starting stalls, backed up with video analysis. I’m getting so excited to see how they cope and develop,” Du Plooy said. Gina Goldsmith, who, together with Jonathan Snaith is instrumental in making the special race happen, said safety comes first, so all candidates are training rigorously on their strength and fitness.  Goldsmith said: “We hope it will add a bit of fun to L’Ormarins King’s Plate Day as well as attract new people to the racecourse with friends and family coming to cheer their ladies on.  “A special mention to our sponsors Okapi and Cape Racing. Okapi is an African luxury lifestyle brand and is such a fitting partner for this historic event.” The L’Ormarins King’s Plate promises to celebrate and award guests who come donned in their finest outfits in keeping with the strict blue-and-white dress code.  According to the organisers, there will be prizes for the Best Hat, Best Dressed Man or Best Dressed Woman.  Winners will have the chance to win prizes from Cartier, Victoria Gin and Anthonij Rupert Wyne.  “The grand prize for the Best Dressed Woman will be a trip for two to experience the Qatar Goodwood Festival, one of the undisputed highlights of the British racing season at the end of July 2023.  In addition to the fantastic fusion of fixtures and fashion, attendees can expect food from the best local vendors. “Fine Anthonij Rupert wines and antique car displays from the Franschhoek Motor Museum, not to mention the legendary after-party where international DJ Lora, who is back after a few years, will entertain guests as the sun sets over the racecourse.” Cape Argus