Cape Town - An enraged taxi driver from Durbanville has been arrested after his outburst at a Beetle driver. Caught on camera, the driver is seen attacking the motorist using a wheel jack, accusing him of bumping his taxi. As the video circulated on social media, Durbanville SAPS, with Licence Plate Recognition (LPR), assisted in tracing the suspect. According to metro officials, the driver did not even possess a permit to operate on that route. Santaco provincial chairperson Mandla Hermanus said: “We only saw the incident on social media. We don’t know who the driver is and what association he belongs to. “When we receive the particulars of the incident we will contact the association where he operates. Associations have their own internal disciplinary process, and these include the expulsion of drivers. “When we have been approached by the victim with the necessary information, we will intervene and ensure that appropriate actions are taken against the driver.” Road Rage @SAPoliceService pic.twitter.com/CoD5QRnMpi Mobility MEC spokesperson Daniel Johnson said: “My ministry and the Department of Transport and Public Works are extremely disheartened that this road rage incident occurred. Roads can only be safe when people use them responsibly, and there is no place for short tempers and criminal behaviour. “We condemn all forms of violence, especially on the road network. I wish to thank the City of Cape Town’s law enforcement directorate and SAPS Durbanville for their swift action in getting the suspect off Western Cape roads.  “Let this be a clear message to road users – stay calm, abide by the rules of the road, and respect other road users, because if you don’t there is no place to hide and you will face the full might of the law.” SAPS spokesperson FC van Wyk said a malicious damage to property case had been registered at Durbanville police station for investigation. “A 27-year-old suspect (taxi driver) was arrested and will appear in the Bellville Magistrate’s Court once charged,” he said. siviwe.melapi@inl.co.za Cape Argus