Cape Town - Cape Town matriculants have been told there are options open to them in the field of business education, as two renowned business schools set up shop in Woodstock. On Friday, the Regent Business School (RBS) held an event to showcase its rebranded Woodstock campus. The event, at which RBS showed off its tech-driven programmes, was attended by mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis. After touring the exhibitions and displays, during which he was given the chance to operate a drone, Hill-Lewis said the school’s idea of merging tech studies with courses such as BCom (accounting) and BCom (Law) was very exciting. He was speaking to journalists after being interviewed on GoodHope FM Breakfast, which broadcast the event live. Told there was a cohort of City employees enrolled at the institution, Hill-Lewis said: “If City officials, who already do such a great job, are making the effort to improve themselves to learn things after hours, then that makes me very proud and I’m inspired by that.” RBS Cape Town campus enrolment specialist Ashieqa Hartley said the school’s applications were all still open, especially for matrics, and that depending on their pass, be it a Bachelor’s or a higher certificate, there was a programme available for them. “Basically RBS is just trying to disrupt the education system. We are a business, management and commerce school first, however we do bring 21st century tech-rich skills into every programme we offer,” Hartley said. Also setting up shop in Woodstock is the Henley Business School, which has long had a Johannesburg campus. On their website, Henley’s learning experience head Linda Buckley said the school has an abiding commitment to giving people who have never had the opportunity to study a chance to advance their formal learning. Henley’s degree-level management development qualification programmes head Rashika Padarath, said: “Many individuals and entrepreneurs are choosing to use the Henley ladder of learning to study while working, rather than taking a more traditional full-time undergraduate route through the university system.” mwangi.githahu@inl.co.za Cape Argus