Cape Town - The City of Cape Town’s Mayco Member for Mobility, Rob Quintas has issued a stern warning to alleged arsonists who torched a MyCiTi bus in Hout Bay on Wednesday evening. According to Quintas’ office, trouble started at around 5.25pm on Wednesday with a taxi-related protest where protesters blocked the traffic circle at Imizamo Yethu (IY). “The protest took place after the City’s Traffic Services responded to reports of taxis ranking illegally in the area and that some vehicles were operating without operating licences,” the City said. Quintas said, however, the demonstration escalated and protesters resorted to targeting a MyCiTi bus that was servicing the route between the Adderley Street station in the Cape Town CBD and Hout Bay. “The bus was stoned when the bus driver stopped in the vicinity of the IY traffic circle to allow approximately 40 passengers to disembark. The bus driver was instructed to get out of the bus and it was set alight. Thankfully, no injuries were reported. “In these hard times where Capetonians have to battle unemployment, constant load shedding and the high cost of living, we will do all we can to ensure our commuters can count on us for a reliable and safe public transport service. “We have deployed officers from our Metro Police Service, Traffic Services and Transport Enforcement Unit to patrol the Hout Bay and Imizamo Yethu areas since last night’s attack and will act as needed to protect passengers, bus drivers, and our assets. “Deviations will be enforced as and when needed. We will not accept or tolerate lawlessness, nor retaliation attacks as a result of the enforcement of the City’s by-laws and transport regulations,” Quintas said. The City of Cape said that it would keep monitoring the situation to ensure the safety and well-being of commuters and MyCiTi personnel. Quintas also revealed that the Hout Bay Taxi Association was in discussions with the police well into the evening. A few minibus-taxi drivers gathered again earlier this morning, January 12, but no incidents of violence have been reported, according to the City. Cape Argus