Cape Town - Flustered parents and guardians filled Toppers Uniforms in Athlone, frantically trying to get last-minute school essentials on a tight schedule and budget. The store on Lawrence Road and Aden Avenue was the only one in the area with permanent queues forming, as staff tried to speedily service customers. Athlone parent Nuraan Abrahams said: “We’re trying to find out whether we can maybe preferably get second hand from a previous (student) because the cost of things is so expensive.  “The basics would obviously be the grey pants and shirts, but then there are so many specifics with regards to blazers, jerseys, fezes, it’s compulsory and all at an extra cost.  “A badge for R75, a tie for R75, so I just find that the school should try and give you a bundle package for a cheaper price.” Abrahams said she was under the impression that schools provided learners with textbooks. “I went to school and paid R250 for the year and I got my books,” Abrahams said. She also questioned why a Grade 8 high school learner required retractable wax crayons, as per the stationery list. She said schools should make the list accessible earlier in the year to allow for the necessary financial planning.  Khayelitsha parent Nombasa Mtsewu was at the store to purchase a uniform for her daughter, who is entering Grade 3. “It’s very stressful because sometimes you don’t get the uniform. It’s out of stock and then you need to come back and sometimes you don’t get it. I’m going to need stationery after this.  “It is costly but not if you’re buying in bulk. But it’s not easy to buy in bulk if you’re not going to need such a lot of stuff.” Helping her daughter try on a new uniform, Nyanga parent Nwabisa Mbangata said: “It’s been stressful because there is no money. We were busy last year for Christmas.” Collecting uniforms on behalf of a trust, Debra Slabbert said: “It is costly, people are struggling at the moment. I think it’s just a general thing throughout and materials, etc. are costly so it is a huge expense to families.  “Some parents wait until after Christmas to come to do it, which sometimes puts pressure on the supplies. It would always be better to do it more towards the end of the year, but I think they are so busy with the festive season instead of the school season.” Mitchells Plain parent Moses Peters said it was his daughter’s first year at high school. “It has been a rush but it’s been catered for, we’re all excited to see her going to high school. It is a costly thing, especially if you can’t really afford it. I feel sorry for those who are in a worse situation than I am.” Toppers Uniforms manager Anisha Esat said they had seen an influx of customers since the beginning of January, resulting in an increase in trading hours. The store is usually busier two to three weeks prior to the reopening of schools, until two weeks after, with customers spending an average of R700 a uniform. Esat said they had faced major supply issues due to load shedding and delays at ports. shakirah.thebus@inl.co.za Cape Argus