Our government had more than a decade and two years of the Covid-19 lockdown and borrowed about R500billion to solve the problems at Eskom. Yet we have Stage 6 load shedding. Logic suggests that 10 extra years and another R500billion is not going to help as time and money are not the problem. Thinking people must accept that our democratically elected government does not have the ability to solve our energy, housing and so many other problems. Democracy cannot compete against the power of stupidity, wastage and corruption. Without electricity, our nation and future is doomed as democracy and the Constitution cannot wash, house or feed hungry people. As a nation we must decide, do we allow those in authority to destroy the nation and our collective future, or do we remove this stupidity at all costs? This is, in reality, our moment of truth and our challenge. Voting based on historical sentiment will not add value or help, as returning the same people to governance has proven to be useless over the past 27 years. For example, visiting Sea Point this Sunday for lunch was shocking as most food outlets were closed from noon until 5pm. This is the busiest time during summer and this flow sustains business during winter when few visit. Many shops have closed permanently. What happens to those who worked in the shops? How do they feed/clothe/house their families? Also, infrastructure such as sewerage stations and manufacturing requires electricity and not everything can be linked to generators. When I asked staff at Nando’s in Sea Point why they were closed, they said they did not have physical space for a generator as the yard was too small. Even marine animals such as seals are going crazy as sewage flows into many parts of our coastline. Also, we now have gas-related fires and explosions. Recently, a shop owner blew himself and his staff to bits in Woodstock.  A truck transporting gas blew up a railway bridge, part of a hospital and killed 40 people. The message is clear: many cannot work with gas, as it’s dangerous. Instead of waiting for other forms of energy, it is easier and cheaper to remove the futility and corruption in government and then solve Eskom. Also, criminals love blackouts, that is why the relentless increase in crime. The truth is that our leaders simply do not care. Our president and ex-president are interdicting each other in court while we sit in the dark. Our government cannot solve the problems at Eskom as they are the problem at Eskom. * Cape Muslim Congress, Yagyah Adams.  ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).