Cape Town - After its warning about the change in tidal patterns yesterday, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) says it has begun recording concerning incidents at beaches across the Western Cape. In Kleinmond, the NSRI revealed that it was activated to respond to a boating incident in Maasbaai, near Hangklip. NSRI Kleinmond coxswain Michael Markinova said the incident occurred at about 8.16am on Monday. Markinova said: “The NSRI Kleinmond and NSRI Gordon’s Bay duty crew were activated following reports from Law Enforcement and CapeNature of a small boat capsized at Maasbaai, near Hangklip, with reports of one person safely ashore and one person missing. “Our NSRI Kleinmond rescue vehicle towed our NSRI rescue craft Rescue 42 Alpha which was launched on the scene, while the NSRI Gordon’s Bay rescue craft Jack and Irene responded from Gordon’s Bay.” Markinova said the Western Cape government health EMS was activated and the EMS/AMS Skymed rescue helicopter was placed on standby alert. “EMS paramedics took the survivor into their care. On arrival at the capsized craft, there were no signs of any persons, and a sea and shoreline search commenced. During a search, the body of a man was located and recovered close inshore in amongst rocks. “The body was recovered on the shore where the body was taken into the care of Police and Government Health Forensic Pathology Services. The boat was righted at sea and recovered to shore using the NSRI Kleinmond rescue craft. “Police have opened an inquest docket. We would like to extend our sincere condolences to the family,” Markinova said. The other incident occurred at Mnandi Beach in Mitchells Plain, where a man went missing in the surf. According to NSRI Strandfontein station commander Nicky Whitehead, the swimmer was reported missing at about 5.22pm on Monday. Whitehead said: “The NSRI Strandfontein duty crew dispatched the NSRI rescue craft to join Law Enforcement and the City of Cape Town (CoCT) lifeguards at Garbage Beach, S Bend, near Mnandi, who had initiated a search for a male, believed to be aged 38, reportedly missing in the surf.” “Police services, the WC Government Health EMS, Strandfontein Lifesaving lifeguards and Cape Town Fire and Rescue Services also responded. However, despite an extensive search, (there was) no sign of the man.” “Police are still investigating. CoCT Law Enforcement Marine Unit are continuing in an ongoing search. CoCT lifeguards and Strandfontein Lifesaving lifeguards are tasked to keep a lookout,” Whitehead said. Cape Argus