Cape Town - Searching for and rescuing people in distress has become a daily occurrence for Wilderness Search and Rescue (WSAR). The organisation was kept busy with 33 call-outs around the Cape this month so far, significantly more than in previous years. In one recent incident, a drone was used to locate hikers stuck on a ledge above Newlands Forest. WSAR is a network of government agencies and civilian volunteer organisations who partner in search and rescue operations. WSAR spokesperson David Nel said: “Our peak summer season is still on a high, with huge numbers of locals and tourists exploring the outdoors. That means we’ve been exceptionally busy, with our team members responding to numerous incidents.” Nel said they usually responded to 40 call-outs during the festive period but this year, they responded to 33 incidents in January alone. On Sunday, WSAR teams were activated after a group of seven hikers called for help while attempting to ascend Els Ravine above Newlands Forest on Sunday morning, the group decided to call for help when it became clear that they were not able to safely climb any further. A drone from the Western Cape Government Health Department’s Emergency Medical Services (EMS) drone unit was used to locate the hikers. It immediately provided rescue team members with information about the patients’ exact position and the challenges the team were likely to encounter while accessing their location. “Once on scene, the team swiftly climbed to the three stranded climbers, secured them in harnesses and helmets and lowered them to the bottom of the cliff. All seven hikers were then guided back down to the start of the hike. In another incident on Sunday, a WSAR team on board the Western Cape Department of Health EMS/Air Mercy Service (AMS) rescue helicopter was dispatched to Du Toitskloof to assist an injured hiker. Nel said: “The hiker, said to be in her twenties, injured her ankle while walking back from the Krom River Waterfall in the Limietberg Nature Reserve. The rescue team were hoisted down to the patient. She was assessed and secured into a rescue harness and helmet, before being hoisted up into the helicopter. She was flown to a nearby landing zone.” In a third incident on Sunday, another hiker was carried from above Cecilia Forest on a stretcher after injuring her ankle while hiking. SA Cross Air Mercy Service (AMS) spokesperson Venessa Horn said the AMS team remained on high alert for the entirety of the festive season and correctly anticipated that there would be a number of rescues due to the increased number of people using the Western Cape mountains and beaches. “While many incidents can be avoided with careful planning, preparation and sound decision-making, the sea and mountains remain hazardous. You need to be well prepared,” Horn said. kristin.engel@inl.co.za Cape Argus