Cape Town - Tygerberg Hospital will temporarily be closing its main gate entrance for four months, to clear the way for construction as part of the hospital’s revitalisation project. Following Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, Tygerberg Hospital is the second-largest hospital in the country and the largest in the Western Cape. The tertiary hospital in Parow officially opened in 1976, operating as a teaching hospital in conjunction with the Stellenbosch University’s Health Science Faculty. Following a major assessment in 2005, the provincial Cabinet made a unanimous decision that neither rehabilitation nor remodelling would solve the hospital’s long-term problems, with a principle decision to rebuild the hospital. Hospital spokesperson Laticia Pienaar said the decision to redevelop the hospital was made by the provincial Cabinet in 2009. Due to the hospital’s size and complexity, its redevelopment is classified as a “mega-project”, Pienaar said. “This mega-project aims to improve health infrastructure for the people of the Western Cape by replacing the current inefficient and ageing Tygerberg Hospital – which has become increasingly costly to maintain – with two modern, efficient facilities equipped with 21st century technology.” This includes a new 596-bed regional hospital offering Level 1 and 2 services on a site procured at Belhar – considered a mega-project in itself – called the Belhar Regional Hospital in addition to a tertiary facility at Tygerberg Hospital for the training of health professionals and technologists. “The development is planned to allow for expansion, with commissioning of 893 beds offering Level 2 and 3 quaternary services.” Last week, the hospital announced that its two main entrances would be upgraded this year. The main gate entrance, situated on the west side of Tygerberg Hospital, will be closed for vehicles and pedestrians until June 30 for necessary upgrades. The closure would allow for the safe demolition and building of the existing guard house. Users have been advised to use the east entrance of the hospital for appointments and visits during the closure. shakirah.thebus@inl.co.za Cape Argus