Apartheid was an abominable system. It created an unjust society based solely on the colour of one’s skin. Then along came democracy with much hope and euphoria. It toppled apartheid and promised an equal society for all to enjoy. But it turned out to be a grand illusion. The ANC tricksters had hoodwinked the masses. In return for their votes they dished out empty promises to the hungry masses. The failure of democracy is pervasive. Everywhere you look you see the faces of disillusionment. On the streets, in the towns, workplaces, homes and the hovels a forlorn look of disappointment and despair has gripped the country. Democracy under the ANC is a failure. Whatever good it created in the first few years of its rule has been all wiped out. Just look at Eskom, Transnet, Prasa, the municipalities, the dirty streets and the potholed roads, they are all signs of a failed state. Crime and corruption, lawlessness, neglect, incompetence, sheer laziness and shoddiness have become the hallmark of ANC rule. The great Nelson Mandela once said: “Never, never and never again shall it be that this beautiful land will again experience the oppression of one by another.” He’s gone but apartheid is still here, not in name but in a disguised form, under the cloak of the ANC, not white-on-black but black-onblack oppression. In law, the crime is greater when it’s committed by one of your own kind. But in politics it’s the other way about. It’s fine if the oppression and injustice are committed by your own kind. Patriarchy and allegiance are the overriding factors. What a wonderful legacy for the ANC! But the masses are getting tired. The country is ripe for change. As it toppled apartheid, the ANC must, in turn, get the boot. The masses must rise and throw out the corrupt ANC. It’s past its sell-by date. Can history repeat itself? Never say never! * Thyagaraj Markandan, Kloof. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).