Cape Town - Youth with artistic flair and wanting to explore African Contemporary Art are encouraged to apply for the MOCAA Art Club (MAC) 2023 bursary. The bursary application extended until March 11 is open to students from low to no-fee schools in Cape Town and those already on a full bursary. MAC co-ordinator and facilitator Amy Cornfield said the intention of the MAC was to develop art literacy, criticality and to build social cohesion with teenagers from various schools and communities, joined together by their desire to learn about, discuss, and create art. Applications were aimed at high school learners from Grades 9 to 11, and ages 14 to 17. “Students will be asked to think critically about art and engage in discussions that will act as the catalyst for conceptual development and creation. MAC members will work towards an exhibition that they will curate and install,” Cornfield said. MAC was launched last year, with the pilot running from July 30 until December 10. The first cohort consisted of 15 members who came to the Zeitz MOCAA Museum of Contemporary Art Africa twice a month for nine sessions. “Starting with an orientation day, the club’s final session was a full day of curation, installation and artwork review, ending with the exhibition opening. Each Saturday afternoon session was packed, consisting of icebreaker games, team-building exercises, exhibition visits, talks, discussions and lots of art-making,” Cornfield said. This year, there are 16 membership places available, eight of which are paid and the other eight bursaries. Transport costs for the bursaried will be subsidised and equipment, materials and refreshments will be provided. “We are looking for teenagers who show a keen interest in art, and have a strong desire to learn about and discuss Contemporary Art from Africa,” Cornfield said. Teenagers will have to submit an application, consisting of both written and practical portfolio requirements. All applicants will be reviewed via a selection process, including an interview. For more information, visit the Zeitz MOCAA website: https://zeitzmocaa.museum/exhibition/workshop/mocaa-art-club-m-a-c/ Applications can be submitted in-person or emailed to: artclub@zeitzmocaa.museum Cape Argus