Cape Town - Zwelihle township parents are calling on the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) to build another high school in the area, while pleading outside the already oversubscribed school for placement for their children. Local councillors were called to Qhayiya Secondary School in Zwelihle, Hermanus, on Thursday, after several parents gathered at the school in a desperate attempt to find placement. Councillor Masibongwe Sihlahla said the school was the only public high school serving the Zwelihle community. “We have only one high school in our township, which must accommodate the whole of Zwelihle. This happens annually. We have been calling on the WCED to try to build a second high school for Zwelihle to accommodate the numbers that are here.” Zwelihle township has a population of between 18 000 and 22 000 people. Sihlahla said a permanent solution to addressing the overcrowding of classrooms would be to build another school. “I have seen the figures with the school principal. There are about 2 268 learners that are already at the school. There are about 50 kids in a class.” Parent Vuyokazi Ngxovu waited outside the school in the hope that placement in Grade 10 would be made available for her 15-year-old daughter. “They gave me the forms and told me to wait for a call. I didn't receive any calls. At the WCED, there is nothing. There’s no other school, only this one. She’s staying at home and I’m scared to leave the child in the location alone.” WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said threats of protest were made on Wednesday, however this did not materialise on Thursday. She said the department arranged for the police to be on site in case to monitor the situation. Hammond said the school had a 39:1 pupil/teacher ratio, but some grades were facing pressure. She said the school could not accept more pupils, as it was full, and that the group of parents/caregivers were demanding placement at the school. She said parents were not prepared to go to Hawston Secondary School, about 13km from Zwelihle. “Hermanus HS is full. The group consists of about 135 learners who had applied extremely late. We are aware of the pressures for placement, and are looking at all available options for expanding access and constructing schools in the Overstrand municipality.” shakirah.thebus@inl.co.za Cape Argus