Cape Town - The City of Cape Town has released its road closures guide that it has already begun to put in place in the lead-up to this year’s State of the Nation Address (Sona) to be held in the heart of the city’s CBD. The local municipality said that the closures were placed in strategic positions to assist with traffic flow and accommodate the State of the Nation Address, its policing and traffic officials will affect road closures around Parliament and up to the City Hall. While urging motorists and the general public to be mindful of restricted areas and roads, the City of Cape Town is also advising motorists that some of its parking areas in the City Bowl will also not be accessible to them. In the days leading up to the State of the Nation Address, the City of Cape Town has been cordoning off some of the roads leading to the City Hall to allow for the rehearsals. Up until February 8, 2023, at 11.59 pm, City of Cape Town officials will be cordoning off Darling Street between Buitenkant and Lower Plein Street, Parade Street between Darling and Caledon Street, Closing Parade: Corporation Street from Longmarket to Castle Street and Castle Street from Corporation to Buitenkant Street. From February 8, 2023, and on February 9 the City is advising residents and motorists of Phase 4 of its road closures which will see parking restrictions from 8pm on February 8 until 11.59 on February 9. Parking areas that will be cordoned off will be Roeland from Brandweer to Plein Street, Commercial Street, Buitenkant from Glynn to Castle Street, Darling Street from Sir Lowry to Plein Street, Caledon Street from Corporation to Buitenkant Street.  As well as Corporation Street from Darling to Albertus Street and Parade Street between Albertus Street and Darling Street. On Thursday, February 9, City officials will institute Phase 5 of its road closures procedure in the following areas from 6am to 11.59pm on February 9. Officials will also be fencing off various areas around the venue, placing gates to control access to City Hall. According to the City, a gate will be placed on the corner of Lower Plein and Darling Street with fencing on both sides of the road interlocking at the corners of Corporation Street. Another on the corner of Lower Plein and Longmarket Street. Fencing will be placed on both sides of the curbs interlocking at Corporation Street. Another gate will be placed on the corner of Caledon and Corporation, and fencing on both sides of the curb interlocking at Longmarket Street. Officials will also place a gate in Parade Street Gate on the corner of Parade and Caledon Street, fencing on both sides of the curb interlocking at Longmarket Street and in Longmarket Street between the library and campus next to Buitenkant Street. Phase 6 of the City’s road closures will see the closure of the following roads from 5.45pm until 8pm on February 9, 2023:  Cape Argus