Recently, a Chinese “weather balloon” flew over the US and was shot down. Instantly, President (Joe) Biden with the so-called “liberal media” BBC and CNN began beating the drums of provocation and war. What is conveniently forgotten is that the US and its allies have invaded, occupied and ruined more than 50 nations since World War II, and continue to create and spread endless conflict globally. The US is engaged in several proxy and direct wars and seeks a war with China as well. For example, with the help of Islamic State (IS), which is a creation of the US intelligence services as verified by former president Donald Trump, America occupies large parts of Syria where it steals the oil. The US and its allies did the same in Iraq, but were defeated by Iran. Immediately after its defeat in Afghanistan, under the shield of “puritanical Islam”, the US sent IS to blow up mosques in Pakistan and Afghanistan. Any Muslim who thinks IS is a benefit to global Islam or Muslims must ask themselves a simple question – why does IS kill mostly Muslims and enjoy blowing up mosques, while both actions are clearly illegal in Islam? Also, where does IS get the endless supply of high-quality advanced American made weapons and technology? Global politics and its sidekick, predatory capitalism, theft of resources and corruption of puppet political leaders have been the norm for centuries, but the levels of hypocrisy are currently next level. The industrial complex that controls the American political system does not allow the American people to breathe. While running like children from the Taliban, who retook Afghanistan in flip-flops without socks, the US started a war in Ukraine and is now preparing for war with China. The war with China started long ago, but moved up a notch when the US hired Antony Blinken, an arrogant fool, as secretary of state. Within minutes of his first meeting with the Chinese ambassador, Blinken’s rudeness was so chaotic, the Chinese ambassador reminded Blinken that his language and attitude were undiplomatic and rude. It seems the US didn’t learn humility or anything else from its military defeats in Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran and South East Asia. The point is that the US and its allies are also spying on many other nations – just ask Julian Assange. It’s tough to take the moral high ground when you have a history of spying, deceit and mass murder. * Cape Muslim Congress councillor Yagyah Adams. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).