Cape Town - After a measles outbreak in several provinces, the country is now ramping-up a vaccination programme encouraging parents/guardians to have their children vaccinated. Department of Health and Wellness spokesperson Byron la Hoe said the majority of laboratory-confirmed cases in the Western Cape were in the 5-9 year age group. “The vaccine is offered to children, as the most vulnerable, to stop the spread of measles and further outbreaks in the country. Prevention and control of measles outbreaks can only be achieved through vaccination, which is a cost-effective intervention available to all parents of eligible children under 15 years,” La Hoe said. He said children who have not been vaccinated may receive the measles vaccine at any age over six months. This can be accessed at no cost at all at primary healthcare facilities.  Several provinces are said to be affected by measles outbreaks. As a result, the Health Department will be making additional booster doses available for every child under the age of 15, as of yesterday (Mon) until March 31, 2023. In the Western Cape, the five measles cases were not linked and are therefore not considered an outbreak. The department will also be visiting children at crèches, day-care centres or public schools through the integrated school vaccination programme to offer the vaccine, upon their parent/guardian’s consent. “There are reports of measles outbreaks in the rest of the country, and some parents are worried. Our goal is for all children under 15 in the province to be protected by a measles vaccine. This will enable us to interrupt the spread of measles cases and save lives.  “We appeal to parents and caregivers to make the wise choice and vaccinate their eligible children against measles. Let us leave no child behind and ensure they grow up healthy,” Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo said. As one of the leading causes of death among young children, the virus is particularly dangerous for children who may develop severe complications such as pneumonia or brain swelling.  Symptoms include fever, cough, red eyes and a rash. The department warned of the extremely contagious nature of the virus. The province is hoping to reach 95% of children vaccinated against measles. Currently, an average of 80% of children in the province have received the required two doses. shakirah.thebus@inl.co.za Cape Argus