Cape Town - Blossom Street Primary School’s very own Umar Jones was announced by the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) as the winner of the 2022 Story Stars competition, seeing Jones portrayed in the story alongside animated characters Felix and Felicity. Education MEC David Maynier launched the 2023 Story Stars competition on Thursday, an annual creative writing competition for all Grade 4 learners in the Western Cape. Maynier visited the Athlone school to announce Jones as the winner, as well as to premiere the next instalment of “Story Stars: The Adventures of Felix and Felicity”, which includes Jones’s character. The stories are derived from the Grade 4 learner’s creativity, with new characters introduced each year.  The winner of the competition has the chance to narrate and star in their own story.  The animation is an ongoing film, introduced to the new cohort of Grade 4 learners each year. “Umar follows in the footsteps of our 2020 Story Stars winner from Philadelphia Primary School, Keschrie Booysen, and our 2021 winner, Xia Du Toit from Laerskool Mikro, in the Story Stars hall of fame,” Maynier said. “Umar’s story – Battling the Bully! – has a unifying and important message about bullying. “It was also very creative, with new imaginative characters such as ‘Ashtastic’ the flying unicorn, which the animators were very excited to animate. Felix is also seen rapping for the first time.” This year, two other learners from the school were also placed in 5th and 6th spots. “Ms Liddle keeps producing these budding writers as the 2nd place winner from last year was also in her class. Well done to our second and third-place winners, Blair Davids from Northwood Primary School (2nd) and Kenzo Segals from Rietenbosch Primêr (3rd) for their wonderful stories.” The 2023 Grade 4 learners can now write the next instalment of Felix and Felicity’s adventures. In addition to writing, starring in and narrating the video, the Story Stars winner also received a tablet, book bag and branded stationery. The winning school also receives a R10 000 transfer payment for learning and teaching support material. Cape Argus