Cape Town - Flanked by his three children, ANC deputy president Paul Mashatile was all smiles at his swearing-in ceremony as a Parliamentarian along with four other party leaders on Monday. Sihle Zikalala, who topped the party’s national executive committee (NEC) list at the recent ANC elective conference, second deputy secretary-general Maropene Ramokgopa and former Gauteng MPL Parks Tau joined Mashatile to be sworn-in as MPs at the ceremony ahead of the much-anticipated State of the Nation Address (Sona) on Thursday. However, the questions on everyone’s lips at the impromptu press briefing that followed the swearing-in was whether Mashatile would take over the reins at the Union Building’s West Wing office before or after the Sona; would his ascension to the government’s deputy presidency be announced yesterday or today; and whether he was ready to replace outgoing Deputy President David Mabuza. Mashatile was at pains to dodge the questions, saying that the last time he checked, Mabuza was still deputy president of the country. Mashatile defeated President Cyril Ramaphosa’s close allies Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane and Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola at the Nasrec elective conference in December to possibly ascend to the second-highest office. Mabuza declined nomination from the floor at the conference and his office confirmed his resignation last week.  Contradicting reports emerged at the weekend on whether Ramaphosa had been sitting on or had accepted Mabuza’s resignation. Asked whether he was ready to be deputy president, Mashatile said: “I’ve been deployed to Parliament as the deputy president of the ANC. “The deputy president of the country is a prerogative of the president. He’s the one who decides who is going to be deputy president. “For now, I’m happy to serve as an MP. It’s good to be back here.” Pressed further, Mashatile said: “I think let’s leave it there for now. I’m looking forward to serve as an MP. I’ve done it before. It’s good to work in Parliament for the people.” Mashatile previously served as an MP before he joined the Top Six of the ANC. He said Ramaphosa had not discussed the deputy presidency question with the party’s Top Seven. The ANC’s highest decision-making body added a seventh member at its elective conference in December. ANC chief whip Pemmy Majodina said: “There is no open secret here. It is the prerogative of the president to appoint a deputy president.” Pressed on the expected Cabinet reshuffle and the questions lingering around Mabuza’s future, Majodina hinted that Ramaphosa could “maybe after Sona” give a “new programme of what is going to happen in the Cabinet”. soyiso.maliti@inl.co.za Cape Argus